Aim: Design and implement basics embedded circuits.
Components:- Siren, HomeGateway, Motion Detector, Door, Smartphone.

Theory:A system designed with the embedding of hardware and software together for a specific function with a larger area is embedded system design. 
In this Practical Implementing basic Embeded system to perform following task such as Alarm system and Time buzzer etc.

1.Automatic Alarm system-
Alarm should get trigger by sensor:in this Practical using
Home Gateway,The main functions of Home Gateway As a physical interface that connects all 
external access networks to the home and connects the home internal network to the outside.
In Automatic Alarm system Motion detector detect motion and trigger to Siren when door is open.

2.Timer based buzzer -
Connecting MCU with Toggle Push Button and MCU with IoT Cables. 
When we tap on toggle its trigger the alarm and we get indication.

3.Sensor based Counting device - 
this device count the number of Move your mouse over trip sensor while holding alt. 
And the output will be displayed on the command line.

Steps:------------------(Part-A)

Step 1: Add all the components in the cisco packet tracer

Step 2: Click on Conditions and Add condition where if 
Motion Detector on is true and Door Lock is lock then set Siren on to true

Step 3: Click on the component and 
set its SSID to HomeGateway and IoT Server to HomeGateway

Step 4: All the devices connected to the HomeGateway will be displayed.

Step 5: Make sure Door is locked. Check that in IoT monitor

Step 6: Test the alert by hovering the mouse over 
the motion detector sensor while holding alt on keyboard. 
The siren should go off when motion detector senses motion.

Steps:-----------------(Part-B)

2.Timer based buzzer 
Components:- Toggle Push Button, MCU Board, Alarm, IoT cables. Steps:-

Step 1: Add all the components in the cisco packet tracer

Step 2: Connect MCU with Toggle Push Button and MCU with IoT Cables

Step 3: Click on MCU and then select Programming.

Step 4: Click Run and 
Push Toggle Button by hovering mouse over it and clicking it with 
holding alt key on keyboard.

Steps:-------------------(Part-C)

3.Sensor based Counting device Components:- Trip Wire, MCU Board, IoT cables. 
Steps:-

Step 1: Click MCU board and go to Programming

Step 2: Click on New and write following code and run.

Step 4: Move your mouse over trip sensor while holding alt. 
And the output will be displayed on the command line.

